# Blockchain Structure

## Basic structure of a blockchain

- Transaction is the basic element of the Bitcoin Blockchain.
- Transactions are validated and broadcast.
- Many transactions form a block.
- Many box form a chain through a digital data link.
- Blocks go through a consensus process, to select the next block that will be added to the chain.
- Chosen block is verified, and added to the current chain.
- Validation and consensus process are carried out by special peer nodes called **miners**.
- These are powerful computers executing software defined by the blockchain protocol.

## Single transaction in bitcoin

- A fundamental concept of a bitcoin network is an Unspent Transaction Output, also known as UTXO.
- The set of all UTXOs in a bitcoin network collectively defined the state of the Bitcoin Blockchain.
- UTXO's are referenced as inputs in a transaction.
- UTXO's those are also outputs generated by a transaction.
- All of that UTXO's is in a system, are stored by the participant nodes in a database.

### Role and structure of the UTXO's in a Bitcoin Blockchain

The transaction uses the amount specified by one or more UTXOs and transmits it to one or more newly created output UTXOs, according to the request initiated by the sender.

- Unique identifier of the transaction that created this UTXO
- An index or the position of the UTXO in the transaction output list
- A value or the amount it is good for
- An optional script, the condition under which the output can be spent.

#### The transaction includes

- A reference number of the current transaction
- References to one no more input UTXOs
- References to one or more output UTXOs newly generated by the current transaction
- Total input amount and output amount

Participants can validate the transaction contents.
The UTXO's reference input exist in the network state.

## Summary

- Transaction bring about transfer of value in the Bitcoin Blockchain.
- The concept of UTXO defines the inputs and outputs of such a transaction.
- Once a block is verified an algorithmic-ally agreed upon by the miners, it is added to the chain of blocks, namely the Blockchain.

## Resources

- [Unspent Transaction Output, UTXO](https://www.smithandcrown.com/definition/unspent-transaction-outputs-utxo/)
